Changes to wording, structure, grammar and spelling (#259)
w3c/distributed-tracing: spec/01-abstract.md

> # Problem Statement

Reviewer: I'd suggest to close this PR https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/pull/221 to avoid double-reviewing

Author: Done

> # Problem Statement

Reviewer: Having H1 inside the abstract section looks bad in rendered document. "Abstract" is already and H1 title.

https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/danielkhan/distributed-tracing/pull/259.html#overview

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9950081/54835707-e353fa80-4c7f-11e9-9a39-07450d19a3d0.png)

Distributed tracing is a methodology implemented by tracing tools to follow, analyze

> and debug a transaction across multiple software components. Typically, a trace

Reviewer: You can use `<a>distributed trace</a>` instead of `trace` so it will be referencing to glossary.

Reviewer: Otherwise you need to put a definition of term "trace" here

Author: Changed to
<a>distributed trace</a>

traverses more than one component which requires it to be uniquely identifiable

> across all participating systems. Passing along this unique identification is

Reviewer: scoping this work down to unique identifier of the trace is very limiting. Why the original paragraph about cause-and-effect events correlation wasn't good enough?

> provided by *trace context propagation*.

Reviewer: I don't understand the part "is provided by trace context propagation" part of a sentence. Perhaps "provided" is not the right word here. What does this sentence mean?

Author: This has been changed by request. If I remember correctly @yurishkuro was involved in this discussion.
Before it was phrased ''is called trace context propagation".
This was considered to be incorrect.

Trace context propagation provides the functionality to pass along a unique identifier.
Please suggest another wording if you feel this is incorrect.

Reviewer: got it. "called" instead of "provided by" makes sentence understandable. But I can see where @yurishkuro is coming from. Perhaps this feedback is similar to feedback I gave further below (not sure):

> scoping this work down to unique identifier of the trace is very limiting. Why the original paragraph about cause-and-effect events correlation wasn't good enough?

Perhaps you can reuse parts of an original abstract for better definitions.

Reviewer 2: The original paragraph introduced a lot of new concepts and was rather confusing.

> Passing along this unique identification is provided by *trace context propagation*.

Reviewer 3: I recommend we add references to published papers that do a much better job of explaining the space of distributed tracing, to put this in context.

> Today, trace context propagation is implemented individually by each vendor.

Reviewer: perhaps say "vendor of distributed tracing solution" to add clarity what is "vendor" here

Reviewer 4: "tracing vendor" would also work

Author: We will change this in a second round and reduce the variability in favor of a glossary.

Reviewer 2: let us add tracing vendor here

Author: changed to tracing vendor as agreed on meeting 2019-03-13

> In multi-vendor environments, this causes interoperability problems, like:

Reviewer: this is not necessarily multi-vendor environment as you use vendor as "tracing vendor". Thrid bullet is NOT about multi-vendor environment. It's about platforms forwarding

Reviewer 2: We already discussed that in the next editing round we will clear out the spec and unify "vendor" usage. We decided so far on trace participant.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In platform forwarding environments, this causes interoperability problems, like:
```

> - Traces that are collected by different tracing vendors cannot be linked together

Reviewer: Again, replace `Traces` to `<a>Distributed traces</a>`

Author: Can we do these glossary replacements and wording changes in a second run?
This will otherwise just again complicate this whole PR.
The abstract section contains the word trace 17 times. Should we replace it every time or does it make sense to only use the full wording when the term is introduced?

Reviewer 2: I think having it once in there for the first occurrence should be fine. Again this is not a major issue and should not block merging.

> - Traces that are collected by different tracing vendors cannot be linked together

Reviewer: are first and second items identical?

  as there is no shared unique identifier.
- Traces that cross boundaries between different tracing vendors break as there
  is no uniformly agreed set of identification that is forwarded.

> - Cloud platform vendors, as well as hardware vendors, cannot guarantee to support

Reviewer: Please include SaaS vendors (e.g. facebook API) and proxies (e.g. Envoy). Which are neither of cloud nor hardware vendor

Author: I think we need there one concise phrase that will be explained in the glossary. We can not mention each flavor of participant every time we speak about them.

Reviewer 5: In HTTP, they'd call them intermediaries and service providers.
```suggestion
- Cloud platform vendors, intermediaries and service providers, cannot guarantee to support
```

  trace context propagation as there is no standard to follow.

In the past, these problems did not have a significant impact as most applications

> were monitored by a single tracing tool and stayed within the boundaries of a single

Reviewer: perhaps use "tracing vendor" or "vendor" instead of "tracing tool" for consistency? Or I missing the difference assumed here?

Reviewer 2: We had this discussion before. Will do this in the next clean up round.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
were monitored by a single tracing vendor and stayed within the boundaries of a single
```

platform provider. Today, an increasing number of applications are highly

> distributed and leverage multiple middleware services and cloud platforms.

Reviewer: I'd suggest to end this paragraph with "This transformation of modern applications calls for distributed tracing context propagation standard". Or something to this effect. Otherwise it feels not-complete.

> ## Solution

Reviewer: why solution is a subsection of a problem?

The trace context specification defines a universally agreed-upon format for the

> exchange of trace context propagation data - referred to as *trace context*. Trace

Reviewer: Perhaps we can add trace context in glossary. I guess *italic* is fine for now

context solves the problems described above by

> - providing a unique identifier for individual traces, allowing traces of multiple

Reviewer: not only traces, but also for individual requests

Reviewer 2: Don't get what you mean. Can you please elaborate on this a bit more

  providers to be linked together.

> - providing an agreed-upon mechanism to forward vendor-specific trace data and

Reviewer: solution includes a new concept of "forward vendor-specific trace data" which was not mentioned as a problem in Problem Statement section. I suggest to state the problem in previous section

  avoid broken traces when multiple trace tools participate in a single transaction.

> - providing an industry standard that platform- and hardware-providers can support.

Reviewer: do you need dash after the words platform and hardware?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- providing an industry standard that platform and hardware providers can support.
```

A unified approach for propagating trace data improves visibility into the behavior
of distributed applications, facilitating problem and performance analysis.

> The interoperability provided by trace-context is a prerequisite to manage modern

Reviewer: please keep consistency and don't use "-" in trace-context

Reviewer 2: again clean up work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interoperability provided by trace context is a prerequisite to manage modern
```
